docs/examples/4.md, before:

# Tool Use and Conversational Chess

In this example, we build a conversational chess game using three agents: **Player White**, **Player Black**, and **Board Proxy**. The agents interact to play a game of chess, with each player taking turns to make moves. The **Board Proxy** manages the board state and facilitates communication between the players.

![Example 4 overview](../static/images/light/examples/4/overview.webp#only-light)
![Example 4 overview](../static/images/dark/examples/4/overview.webp#only-dark)

!!! Note
    Can you find a better way to handle the board state and move tracking between agents, without using globals? Give it a try! We'd love to hear your feedback on this example, either by contributing to the repository, or by reaching out to us.

## Overview

The flow includes:

- **Player White** and **Player Black** agents for each chess player.
- **Board Proxy** to manage board state and relay information between players.

## Agents and Skills

### Agents

1. **Player White**: The agent playing white pieces. Calls methods to get legal moves and make moves.
2. **Player Black**: The agent playing black pieces. Operates similarly to **Player White**.
3. **Board Proxy**: Manages the board’s state and facilitates move tracking between agents.

### Skills

Each player has access to the following skills:

- **get_legal_moves**: Fetches the list of legal moves in UCI format.
- **make_move**: Executes a move and provides feedback on the action taken.

![Example 4 skills](../static/images/light/examples/4/skills.webp#only-light)
![Example 4 skills](../static/images/dark/examples/4/skills.webp#only-dark)

#### get_legal_moves

This function generates a list of possible legal moves from the current board state.

- **Content**:

   ```python
   from typing import Annotated

    import chess

    if "BOARD" not in globals():
        BOARD = chess.Board()
        globals()["BOARD"] = BOARD
    else:
        BOARD = globals()["BOARD"]


    def get_legal_moves() -> Annotated[str, "A list of legal moves in UCI format"]:
        """Get a list of legal moves."""
        return "Possible moves are: " + ",".join(
        [str(move) for move in BOARD.legal_moves]
    )
   ```

#### make_move

Executes a chosen move and outputs the result.

- **Content**:

    ```python
    from typing import Annotated
    import chess
    # Global variables to store the board and move status.
    if "BOARD" not in globals():
        BOARD = chess.Board()
        globals()["BOARD"] = BOARD
    else:
        BOARD = globals()["BOARD"]
    if "MADE_MOVE" not in globals():
        MADE_MOVE = False
        globals()["MADE_MOVE"] = MADE_MOVE
    else:
        MADE_MOVE = globals()["MADE_MOVE"]

    def make_move(
        move: Annotated[str, "A move in UCI format."],
    ) -> Annotated[str, "Result of the move."]:
        """Make a move on the board."""
        global MADE_MOVE
        try:
            move = chess.Move.from_uci(move)
        except BaseException:  # pylint: disable=broad-except
            move = BOARD.parse_san(move)
        BOARD.push_uci(str(move))
        # Get the piece name.
        piece = BOARD.piece_at(move.to_square)
        piece_symbol = piece.unicode_symbol()
        piece_name = (
            chess.piece_name(piece.piece_type).capitalize()
            if piece_symbol.isupper()
            else chess.piece_name(piece.piece_type)
        )
        MADE_MOVE = True
        return f"Moved {piece_name} ({piece_symbol}) from "\
            f"{chess.SQUARE_NAMES[move.from_square]} to "\
            f"{chess.SQUARE_NAMES[move.to_square]}."

    ```

## Agent Configuration

1. **Player White and Player Black Agents**:
   - **System Message**: You are a chess player and you play as **black** / **white**. First call get_legal_moves(), to get a list of legal moves. Then call make_move(move) to make a move.
   - **Skills**: Assign `get_legal_moves` and `make_move` to each agent. Set the executor to the board proxy.

    ![Agent's skills](../static/images/light/examples/4/agent_skills.webp#only-light)
    ![Agent's skills](../static/images/dark/examples/4/agent_skills.webp#only-dark)

2. **Board Proxy**:
   - **Termination Method**: Set up a termination method to end the conversation after a move is made. This method resets a flag (`MADE_MOVE`) after each move to monitor the game flow.

    ![Termination custom method](../static/images/light/examples/4/termination.webp#only-light)
    ![Termination custom method](../static/images/dark/examples/4/termination.webp#only-dark)

## Chats

The flow starts with the black player challenging the white player to a game of chess. The white player then makes the first move.

- **Player Black => Player White**: The black player challenges the white player to a game of chess. For the message we use the "Text" type and for content, we use:

    ```text
    Let's play chess! Your move.
    ```

- **Player White => Board Proxy**: When the white player receives the challenge, a new nested chat is triggered to get the move to play using the board proxy.

- **Player Black => Board Proxy**: When the black player gets a reply from the white player, a new nested chat is triggered to get the move to play using the board proxy. And the beat goes on!

    ![Black player's message](../static/images/light/examples/4/nested_black.webp#only-light)
    ![Black player's message](../static/images/dark/examples/4/nested_black.webp#only-dark)

## Register Nested Chats

On each agent, set up the nested chats we defined above, to handle the flow of the game. For the white player, a nested chat is triggered when the black player makes a move. For the black player, a nested chat is triggered when the white player replies. The message to use is the board proxy's reply, after a new move is made.

![Black player's Nested chats](../static/images/light/examples/4/nested_black.webp#only-light)
![Black player's Nested chats](../static/images/dark/examples/4/nested_black.webp#only-dark)

## Flow chats and requirements

1. **Edit Flow**: Set up the flow order to start with the "Player Black => Player White" connection.
2. **Additional requirements**: As we have seen, running the flow requires the usage of the "chess" library, so make sure to add it in the "Other" tab
    ![Additional requirements](../static/images/light/examples/4/requirements.webp#only-light)
    ![Additional requirements](../static/images/dark/examples/4/requirements.webp#only-dark)

---

Files used in this example:

- Flow: [Tool Use.waldiez](https://github.com/waldiez/examples/blob/main/04%20-%20Tools/Tool%20Use.waldiez)
- Skills:
  - [get_legal_moves.waldiezSkill](https://github.com/waldiez/examples/blob/main/Exported/skills/get_legal_moves.waldiezSkill)
  - [make_move.waldiezSkill](https://github.com/waldiez/examples/blob/main/Exported/skills/make_move.waldiezSkill)

Commit message:

[docs]: replace skill with tool

docs/examples/4.md, after:

# Tool Use and Conversational Chess

In this example, we build a conversational chess game using three agents: **Player White**, **Player Black**, and **Board Proxy**. The agents interact to play a game of chess, with each player taking turns to make moves. The **Board Proxy** manages the board state and facilitates communication between the players.

![Example 4 overview](../static/images/light/examples/4/overview.webp#only-light)
![Example 4 overview](../static/images/dark/examples/4/overview.webp#only-dark)

!!! Note
    Can you find a better way to handle the board state and move tracking between agents, without using globals? Give it a try! We'd love to hear your feedback on this example, either by contributing to the repository, or by reaching out to us.

## Overview

The flow includes:

- **Player White** and **Player Black** agents for each chess player.
- **Board Proxy** to manage board state and relay information between players.

## Agents and Tools

### Agents

1. **Player White**: The agent playing white pieces. Calls methods to get legal moves and make moves.
2. **Player Black**: The agent playing black pieces. Operates similarly to **Player White**.
3. **Board Proxy**: Manages the board’s state and facilitates move tracking between agents.

### Tools

Each player has access to the following tools:

- **get_legal_moves**: Fetches the list of legal moves in UCI format.
- **make_move**: Executes a move and provides feedback on the action taken.

![Example 4 tools](../static/images/light/examples/4/tools.webp#only-light)
![Example 4 tools](../static/images/dark/examples/4/tools.webp#only-dark)

#### get_legal_moves

This function generates a list of possible legal moves from the current board state.

- **Content**:

   ```python
   from typing import Annotated

    import chess

    if "BOARD" not in globals():
        BOARD = chess.Board()
        globals()["BOARD"] = BOARD
    else:
        BOARD = globals()["BOARD"]


    def get_legal_moves() -> Annotated[str, "A list of legal moves in UCI format"]:
        """Get a list of legal moves."""
        return "Possible moves are: " + ",".join(
        [str(move) for move in BOARD.legal_moves]
    )
   ```

#### make_move

Executes a chosen move and outputs the result.

- **Content**:

    ```python
    from typing import Annotated
    import chess
    # Global variables to store the board and move status.
    if "BOARD" not in globals():
        BOARD = chess.Board()
        globals()["BOARD"] = BOARD
    else:
        BOARD = globals()["BOARD"]
    if "MADE_MOVE" not in globals():
        MADE_MOVE = False
        globals()["MADE_MOVE"] = MADE_MOVE
    else:
        MADE_MOVE = globals()["MADE_MOVE"]

    def make_move(
        move: Annotated[str, "A move in UCI format."],
    ) -> Annotated[str, "Result of the move."]:
        """Make a move on the board."""
        global MADE_MOVE
        try:
            move = chess.Move.from_uci(move)
        except BaseException:  # pylint: disable=broad-except
            move = BOARD.parse_san(move)
        BOARD.push_uci(str(move))
        # Get the piece name.
        piece = BOARD.piece_at(move.to_square)
        piece_symbol = piece.unicode_symbol()
        piece_name = (
            chess.piece_name(piece.piece_type).capitalize()
            if piece_symbol.isupper()
            else chess.piece_name(piece.piece_type)
        )
        MADE_MOVE = True
        return f"Moved {piece_name} ({piece_symbol}) from "\
            f"{chess.SQUARE_NAMES[move.from_square]} to "\
            f"{chess.SQUARE_NAMES[move.to_square]}."

    ```

## Agent Configuration

1. **Player White and Player Black Agents**:
   - **System Message**: You are a chess player and you play as **black** / **white**. First call get_legal_moves(), to get a list of legal moves. Then call make_move(move) to make a move.
   - **Tools**: Assign `get_legal_moves` and `make_move` to each agent. Set the executor to the board proxy.

    ![Agent's tools](../static/images/light/examples/4/agent_tools.webp#only-light)
    ![Agent's tools](../static/images/dark/examples/4/agent_tools.webp#only-dark)

2. **Board Proxy**:
   - **Termination Method**: Set up a termination method to end the conversation after a move is made. This method resets a flag (`MADE_MOVE`) after each move to monitor the game flow.

    ![Termination custom method](../static/images/light/examples/4/termination.webp#only-light)
    ![Termination custom method](../static/images/dark/examples/4/termination.webp#only-dark)

## Chats

The flow starts with the black player challenging the white player to a game of chess. The white player then makes the first move.

- **Player Black => Player White**: The black player challenges the white player to a game of chess. For the message we use the "Text" type and for content, we use:

    ```text
    Let's play chess! Your move.
    ```

- **Player White => Board Proxy**: When the white player receives the challenge, a new nested chat is triggered to get the move to play using the board proxy.

- **Player Black => Board Proxy**: When the black player gets a reply from the white player, a new nested chat is triggered to get the move to play using the board proxy. And the beat goes on!

    ![Black player's message](../static/images/light/examples/4/nested_black.webp#only-light)
    ![Black player's message](../static/images/dark/examples/4/nested_black.webp#only-dark)

## Register Nested Chats

On each agent, set up the nested chats we defined above, to handle the flow of the game. For the white player, a nested chat is triggered when the black player makes a move. For the black player, a nested chat is triggered when the white player replies. The message to use is the board proxy's reply, after a new move is made.

![Black player's Nested chats](../static/images/light/examples/4/nested_black.webp#only-light)
![Black player's Nested chats](../static/images/dark/examples/4/nested_black.webp#only-dark)

## Flow chats and requirements

1. **Edit Flow**: Set up the flow order to start with the "Player Black => Player White" connection.
2. **Additional requirements**: As we have seen, running the flow requires the usage of the "chess" library, so make sure to add it in the "Other" tab
    ![Additional requirements](../static/images/light/examples/4/requirements.webp#only-light)
    ![Additional requirements](../static/images/dark/examples/4/requirements.webp#only-dark)

---

Files used in this example:

- Flow: [Tool Use.waldiez](https://github.com/waldiez/examples/blob/main/04%20-%20Tools/Tool%20Use.waldiez)
- Tools:
  - [get_legal_moves.waldiezTool](https://github.com/waldiez/examples/blob/main/Exported/tools/get_legal_moves.waldiezTool)
  - [make_move.waldiezTool](https://github.com/waldiez/examples/blob/main/Exported/tools/make_move.waldiezTool)
