docs/examples/5.md, before:

# Coding and Financial Analysis

In this example, we will set up a workflow for retrieving and plotting stock prices over a specified period. The workflow includes agents for data retrieval, data plotting, and message handling.

![Example 5 overview](../static/images/light/examples/5/overview.webp#only-light)
![Example 5 overview](../static/images/dark/examples/5/overview.webp#only-dark)

## Overview

The flow includes:

- **Code Executor Agent**: Executes the code for retrieving and plotting stock prices.
- **Code Writer Agent**: Writes the code for retrieving and plotting stock prices.
- **Get Stock Prices Skill**: Fetches stock prices using `yfinance`.
- **Plot Stock Prices Skill**: Plots the stock prices using `matplotlib`.

## Agents and skills

### Skills

1. **Get Stock Prices**
   - **Description**: Get the stock prices for the given stock symbols between the start and end dates.
   - **Inputs**: `stock_symbols` (str or list), `start_date` (str in `YYYY-MM-DD`), `end_date` (str in `YYYY-MM-DD`).

   **Content**:

   ```python
    # filename: {get_stock_prices}.py
    """Get stock prices.

    Get the stock prices for the given stock symbols between  
    the start and end dates.
    """


    def get_stock_prices(
        stock_symbols: str | list,
        start_date: str,
        end_date: str,
    ):
        """Get the stock prices for the given stock symbols between
        the start and end dates.

        Args:
            stock_symbols (str or list): The stock symbols to get the
            prices for.
            start_date (str): The start date in the format 
            'YYYY-MM-DD'.
            end_date (str): The end date in the format 'YYYY-MM-DD'.

        Returns:
            dict: (pandas.DataFrame.to_dict): The stock prices for the given stock
            symbols indexed by date, with one column per stock 
            symbol.
        """
        # pylint: disable=import-outside-toplevel
        import yfinance

        stock_data = yfinance.download(
            stock_symbols, start=start_date, end=end_date
        )
        return stock_data.get("Close")
        #
        # We might get:
        # Timestamp is not JSON serializable
        # we can return a dictionary instead:
        #
        # close = stock_data.get("Close")
        # close.index = close.index.date  # Convert the index to date only
        # close.index = close.index.astype(str)  # Convert the index to string
        # return close.to_dict()
   ```

   - **Save** the skill.

2. **Skill: Plot Stock Prices**
   - **Description**: Plot the stock prices for the given stock symbols.

   **Example Code**:

   ```python
    # filename: {plot_stock_prices}.py
    """Plot the stock prices for the given stock symbols."""


    def plot_stock_prices(
        stock_prices: dict,
        filename: str,
    ):
        """Plot the stock prices for the given stock symbols.

        Args:
            stock_prices (dict) [dumped pandas.DataFrame]: The stock 
                prices for the given stock symbols.
            filename (str): The filename to save the plot to.

        Returns:
            str: "ok" if the plot was saved successfully.
        """
        # pylint: disable=import-outside-toplevel
        import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
        import pandas as pd

        if isinstance(stock_prices, dict):
            df = pd.DataFrame.from_dict(stock_prices)
        else:
            df = stock_prices
        plt.figure(figsize=(10, 5))
        for column in df.columns:
            plt.plot(df.index, df[column], label=column)
        plt.title("Stock Prices")
        plt.xlabel("Date")
        plt.ylabel("Price")
        plt.grid(True)
        # if the days are a lot in the plot, get the xticks every 5 days
        # plt.xticks(df.index[::5], rotation=45)
        # give a little space to the plot
        # or don't use xticks at all
        # plt.xticks([])
        plt.tight_layout()
        # save the plot
        plt.savefig(filename)
        return "ok"
    ```

   - **Save** the skill.

## Agents

### Code Writer Agent

1. **Models**
    Link a model of your choice to the **Code Writer Agent**. In our example, we use the `gpt-4-turbo` model.
2. **Skills**
    In the skills tab, add the `get_stock_prices` and `plot_stock_prices` skills to the **Code Writer Agent**. As executor, select the **Code Executor Agent**.
    ![Agent skills registration](../static/images/light/examples/5/agent_skills.webp#only-light)
    ![Agent skills registration](../static/images/dark/examples/5/agent_skills.webp#only-dark)

### Code Executor Agent

In this step, we'll configure a **Code Executor Agent** to handle the execution of the functions required for retrieving and plotting stock data.

1. **Basic configuration**
   - **Max consecutive auto replies**: Let's limit the number of auto-replies to `10` to avoid unnecessary repetition.
   - **Agent Default auto-reply**: We can set the default auto-reply to `Please continue. If everything is done, reply 'TERMINATE', to avoid repeating the same message when asked.

2. **Code Execution**
   - At the **Code Execution** tab, check the box for **Use Code Execution**.
   - Set the **Working Directory** to `coding` (or your designated project folder).
   - Set the **Timeout** slider to `60` seconds to allow enough time for the code to fetch and plot data without interruption.
   - Under **Functions**, add the `get_stock_prices` and `plot_stock_prices` functions to allow the Code Executor Agent to access and execute these methods.

    ![Code Execution](../static/images/light/examples/5/code_execution.webp#only-light)
    ![Code Execution](../static/images/dark/examples/5/code_execution.webp#only-dark)

## Flow chats and requirements

1. **Edit Flow**: Set up the flow order to start with the "Code Executor Agent => Code Writer" connection.
2. **Additional requirements**: Add the libraries we have used (`yfinance`, `matplotlib`, `pandas`) in our skills to the flow requirements.
    ![Additional requirements](../static/images/light/examples/5/requirements.webp#only-light)
    ![Additional requirements](../static/images/dark/examples/5/requirements.webp#only-dark)

---

## Run the flow

Press the **Run** button to execute the flow. When asked, you can press Enter to use the Agents auto-reply message. When you get a message about having the plot generated, you can enter  `TERMINATE` (or `exit`) to end the flow.

![Ending the flow](../static/images/light/examples/5/terminate.webp#only-light)
![Ending the flow](../static/images/dark/examples/5/terminate.webp#only-dark)

You can view the generated code and plot in the specified `code execution` folder.

![Final PLot](../static/images/light/examples/5/plot.webp#only-light)
![Final Plot](../static/images/dark/examples/5/plot.webp#only-dark)

---

Files used in this example:

- Flow: [Coding.waldiez](https://github.com/waldiez/examples/blob/main/05%20-%20Coding/Coding.waldiez)
- Skills:
  - [get_stock_prices.waldiezSkill](https://github.com/waldiez/examples/blob/main/Exported/skills/get_stock_prices.waldiezSkill)
  - [plot_stock_prices.waldiezSkill](https://github.com/waldiez/examples/blob/main/Exported/skills/plot_stock_prices.waldiezSkill)

!!! Note
    The outputs may vary based on the model, skills and message you use. Feel free to customize the skills and messages to suit your requirements

Commit message:

[docs]: replace skill with tool

docs/examples/5.md, after:

# Coding and Financial Analysis

In this example, we will set up a workflow for retrieving and plotting stock prices over a specified period. The workflow includes agents for data retrieval, data plotting, and message handling.

![Example 5 overview](../static/images/light/examples/5/overview.webp#only-light)
![Example 5 overview](../static/images/dark/examples/5/overview.webp#only-dark)

## Overview

The flow includes:

- **Code Executor Agent**: Executes the code for retrieving and plotting stock prices.
- **Code Writer Agent**: Writes the code for retrieving and plotting stock prices.
- **Get Stock Prices Tool**: Fetches stock prices using `yfinance`.
- **Plot Stock Prices Tool**: Plots the stock prices using `matplotlib`.

## Agents and tools

### Tools

1. **Get Stock Prices**
   - **Description**: Get the stock prices for the given stock symbols between the start and end dates.
   - **Inputs**: `stock_symbols` (str or list), `start_date` (str in `YYYY-MM-DD`), `end_date` (str in `YYYY-MM-DD`).

   **Content**:

   ```python
    # filename: {get_stock_prices}.py
    """Get stock prices.

    Get the stock prices for the given stock symbols between  
    the start and end dates.
    """


    def get_stock_prices(
        stock_symbols: str | list,
        start_date: str,
        end_date: str,
    ):
        """Get the stock prices for the given stock symbols between
        the start and end dates.

        Args:
            stock_symbols (str or list): The stock symbols to get the
            prices for.
            start_date (str): The start date in the format 
            'YYYY-MM-DD'.
            end_date (str): The end date in the format 'YYYY-MM-DD'.

        Returns:
            dict: (pandas.DataFrame.to_dict): The stock prices for the given stock
            symbols indexed by date, with one column per stock 
            symbol.
        """
        # pylint: disable=import-outside-toplevel
        import yfinance

        stock_data = yfinance.download(
            stock_symbols, start=start_date, end=end_date
        )
        return stock_data.get("Close")
        #
        # We might get:
        # Timestamp is not JSON serializable
        # we can return a dictionary instead:
        #
        # close = stock_data.get("Close")
        # close.index = close.index.date  # Convert the index to date only
        # close.index = close.index.astype(str)  # Convert the index to string
        # return close.to_dict()
   ```

   - **Save** the tool.

2. **Tool: Plot Stock Prices**
   - **Description**: Plot the stock prices for the given stock symbols.

   **Example Code**:

   ```python
    # filename: {plot_stock_prices}.py
    """Plot the stock prices for the given stock symbols."""


    def plot_stock_prices(
        stock_prices: dict,
        filename: str,
    ):
        """Plot the stock prices for the given stock symbols.

        Args:
            stock_prices (dict) [dumped pandas.DataFrame]: The stock 
                prices for the given stock symbols.
            filename (str): The filename to save the plot to.

        Returns:
            str: "ok" if the plot was saved successfully.
        """
        # pylint: disable=import-outside-toplevel
        import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
        import pandas as pd

        if isinstance(stock_prices, dict):
            df = pd.DataFrame.from_dict(stock_prices)
        else:
            df = stock_prices
        plt.figure(figsize=(10, 5))
        for column in df.columns:
            plt.plot(df.index, df[column], label=column)
        plt.title("Stock Prices")
        plt.xlabel("Date")
        plt.ylabel("Price")
        plt.grid(True)
        # if the days are a lot in the plot, get the xticks every 5 days
        # plt.xticks(df.index[::5], rotation=45)
        # give a little space to the plot
        # or don't use xticks at all
        # plt.xticks([])
        plt.tight_layout()
        # save the plot
        plt.savefig(filename)
        return "ok"
    ```

   - **Save** the tool.

## Agents

### Code Writer Agent

1. **Models**
    Link a model of your choice to the **Code Writer Agent**. In our example, we use the `gpt-4-turbo` model.
2. **Tools**
    In the tools tab, add the `get_stock_prices` and `plot_stock_prices` tools to the **Code Writer Agent**. As executor, select the **Code Executor Agent**.
    ![Agent tools registration](../static/images/light/examples/5/agent_tools.webp#only-light)
    ![Agent tools registration](../static/images/dark/examples/5/agent_tools.webp#only-dark)

### Code Executor Agent

In this step, we'll configure a **Code Executor Agent** to handle the execution of the functions required for retrieving and plotting stock data.

1. **Basic configuration**
   - **Max consecutive auto replies**: Let's limit the number of auto-replies to `10` to avoid unnecessary repetition.
   - **Agent Default auto-reply**: We can set the default auto-reply to `Please continue. If everything is done, reply 'TERMINATE', to avoid repeating the same message when asked.

2. **Code Execution**
   - At the **Code Execution** tab, check the box for **Use Code Execution**.
   - Set the **Working Directory** to `coding` (or your designated project folder).
   - Set the **Timeout** slider to `60` seconds to allow enough time for the code to fetch and plot data without interruption.
   - Under **Functions**, add the `get_stock_prices` and `plot_stock_prices` functions to allow the Code Executor Agent to access and execute these methods.

    ![Code Execution](../static/images/light/examples/5/code_execution.webp#only-light)
    ![Code Execution](../static/images/dark/examples/5/code_execution.webp#only-dark)

## Flow chats and requirements

1. **Edit Flow**: Set up the flow order to start with the "Code Executor Agent => Code Writer" connection.
2. **Additional requirements**: Add the libraries we have used (`yfinance`, `matplotlib`, `pandas`) in our tools to the flow requirements.
    ![Additional requirements](../static/images/light/examples/5/requirements.webp#only-light)
    ![Additional requirements](../static/images/dark/examples/5/requirements.webp#only-dark)

---

## Run the flow

Press the **Run** button to execute the flow. When asked, you can press Enter to use the Agents auto-reply message. When you get a message about having the plot generated, you can enter  `TERMINATE` (or `exit`) to end the flow.

![Ending the flow](../static/images/light/examples/5/terminate.webp#only-light)
![Ending the flow](../static/images/dark/examples/5/terminate.webp#only-dark)

You can view the generated code and plot in the specified `code execution` folder.

![Final PLot](../static/images/light/examples/5/plot.webp#only-light)
![Final Plot](../static/images/dark/examples/5/plot.webp#only-dark)

---

Files used in this example:

- Flow: [Coding.waldiez](https://github.com/waldiez/examples/blob/main/05%20-%20Coding/Coding.waldiez)
- Tools:
  - [get_stock_prices.waldiezTool](https://github.com/waldiez/examples/blob/main/Exported/tools/get_stock_prices.waldiezTool)
  - [plot_stock_prices.waldiezTool](https://github.com/waldiez/examples/blob/main/Exported/tools/plot_stock_prices.waldiezTool)

!!! Note
    The outputs may vary based on the model, tools and message you use. Feel free to customize the tools and messages to suit your requirements
