docs/examples/8.md, before:

# ReAct using Tavily

In this example, we configure an **Assistant** agent with a search tool skill to answer a question using information retrieval. The agent will utilize the search tool to gather information before responding to the user. The workflow involves setting up the agent with specific skills and linking it to the user for interaction.

![Example 8 overview](../static/images/light/examples/8/overview.webp#only-light)
![Example 8 overview](../static/images/dark/examples/8/overview.webp#only-dark)

## Overview

The workflow includes:

- **Assistant Agent**: Uses a search tool to gather real-time information for answering user queries.
- **User Proxy Agent**: Acts as a bridge to initiate the interaction.
- **Agent Flow**: The User Proxy sends a query to the Assistant, which uses the search tool to retrieve information.

To set up the **search_tool** skill in Tavily, follow these steps before configuring the agents.

## Create the Search Tool Skill

1. Go to the **Skills** tab and click on **Add Skill** to create a new skill:

   - **Name**: `search_tool`
   - **Description**: "Search tool using Tavily AI"
   - **Skill Content**:

        ```python
        import os
        from typing import Annotated


        def search_tool(query: Annotated[str, "The search query"]) -> Annotated[str, "The search results"]:
            """Search tool using Tavily AI."""

            from tavily import TavilyClient

            tavily = TavilyClient(api_key=os.environ["TAVILY_API_KEY"])
            return tavily.get_search_context(query=query, search_depth="advanced")
        ```

   - **Environment Variables**: Add the necessary environment variable for the Tavily API key.
     - **Key**: `TAVILY_API_KEY`
     - **Value**: Enter your Tavily API key. You can get one on the [Tavily website](https://tavily.com/).
  
    ![Search Tool](../static/images/light/examples/8/search_tool.webp#only-light)
    ![Search Tool](../static/images/dark/examples/8/search_tool.webp#only-dark)

### Set up the User Proxy

- **Drag and Drop** a new **User Proxy** agent onto the canvas.
- **Configure** the User Proxy agent:
  - No additional models or skills are required for the User Proxy.

### Set up the Assistant Agent

- **Drag and Drop** an **Assistant** agent onto the canvas.
- **Configure** the Assistant agent:
  - **System Message**: "Only use the tools you have been provided with. Reply TERMINATE at the end when the task is done."
- **Assign the Model**:
   Link a model of your choice to the User Proxy agent. In this example, we use the `claude-3-5-sonnet-20240620` model.
- **Add Skills**:
  - Go to the **Skills** tab and select `search_tool`.
  - Set the **Executor** as **User** to allow manual control over the search process.

### Establish Connections

- **Link** the **User Proxy** agent to the **Assistant** agent by dragging a line between them.
- For the message, we use this custom method:

    ```python
    def callable_message(sender, recipient, context):
        """Complete the message function"""
        ReAct_prompt = """
    Answer the following questions as best you can. You have access to tools provided.

    Use the following format:

    Question: the input question you must answer
    Thought: you should always think about what to do
    Action: the action to take
    Action Input: the input to the action
    Observation: the result of the action
    ... (this process can repeat multiple times)
    Thought: I now know the final answer
    Final Answer: the final answer to the original input question

    Begin!
    Question: {input}
    """
        return ReAct_prompt.format(input=context["question"])
    ```

- Add to the message context:
  - **Key**: `question`
  - **Value**: `What is the result of super bowl 2024?`

![Chat Message](../static/images/light/examples/8/message.webp#only-light)
![Chat Message](../static/images/dark/examples/8/message.webp#only-dark)

### Step 4: Execute and Monitor

1. Run the flow by pressing the play button.
2. In the logs section, observe how the Assistant uses the search tool to retrieve relevant information and respond to the query.

!!! Warning
    When running the flow for the first time, you might get an error saying `Please install anthropic to use anthropic`. Even though the library is installed (`ag2[anthropic]`), you might need to restart the kernel to resolve the issue.

!!! Note
    Once the flow starts, you might be prompt before running the search tool. You can just press Enter on the prompt to continue the flow.

![Prompt](../static/images/light/examples/8/message.webp#only-light)
![Prompt](../static/images/dark/examples/8/message.webp#only-dark)

---

Files used in this example:

- Flow: [ReAct.waldiez](https://github.com/waldiez/examples/blob/main/08%20-%20ReAct%20using%20Tavily/ReAct.waldiez)
- Skill: [search_tool.waldiezSkill](https://github.com/waldiez/examples/blob/main/Exported/skills/search_tool.waldiezSkill)

Commit message:

[docs]: replace skill with tool

docs/examples/8.md, after:

# ReAct using Tavily

In this example, we configure an **Assistant** agent with a search tool tool to answer a question using information retrieval. The agent will utilize the search tool to gather information before responding to the user. The workflow involves setting up the agent with specific tools and linking it to the user for interaction.

![Example 8 overview](../static/images/light/examples/8/overview.webp#only-light)
![Example 8 overview](../static/images/dark/examples/8/overview.webp#only-dark)

## Overview

The workflow includes:

- **Assistant Agent**: Uses a search tool to gather real-time information for answering user queries.
- **User Proxy Agent**: Acts as a bridge to initiate the interaction.
- **Agent Flow**: The User Proxy sends a query to the Assistant, which uses the search tool to retrieve information.

To set up the **search_tool** tool in Tavily, follow these steps before configuring the agents.

## Create the Search Tool Tool

1. Go to the **Tools** tab and click on **Add Tool** to create a new tool:

   - **Name**: `search_tool`
   - **Description**: "Search tool using Tavily AI"
   - **Tool Content**:

        ```python
        import os
        from typing import Annotated


        def search_tool(query: Annotated[str, "The search query"]) -> Annotated[str, "The search results"]:
            """Search tool using Tavily AI."""

            from tavily import TavilyClient

            tavily = TavilyClient(api_key=os.environ["TAVILY_API_KEY"])
            return tavily.get_search_context(query=query, search_depth="advanced")
        ```

   - **Environment Variables**: Add the necessary environment variable for the Tavily API key.
     - **Key**: `TAVILY_API_KEY`
     - **Value**: Enter your Tavily API key. You can get one on the [Tavily website](https://tavily.com/).
  
    ![Search Tool](../static/images/light/examples/8/search_tool.webp#only-light)
    ![Search Tool](../static/images/dark/examples/8/search_tool.webp#only-dark)

### Set up the User Proxy

- **Drag and Drop** a new **User Proxy** agent onto the canvas.
- **Configure** the User Proxy agent:
  - No additional models or tools are required for the User Proxy.

### Set up the Assistant Agent

- **Drag and Drop** an **Assistant** agent onto the canvas.
- **Configure** the Assistant agent:
  - **System Message**: "Only use the tools you have been provided with. Reply TERMINATE at the end when the task is done."
- **Assign the Model**:
   Link a model of your choice to the User Proxy agent. In this example, we use the `claude-3-5-sonnet-20240620` model.
- **Add Tools**:
  - Go to the **Tools** tab and select `search_tool`.
  - Set the **Executor** as **User** to allow manual control over the search process.

### Establish Connections

- **Link** the **User Proxy** agent to the **Assistant** agent by dragging a line between them.
- For the message, we use this custom method:

    ```python
    def callable_message(sender, recipient, context):
        """Complete the message function"""
        ReAct_prompt = """
    Answer the following questions as best you can. You have access to tools provided.

    Use the following format:

    Question: the input question you must answer
    Thought: you should always think about what to do
    Action: the action to take
    Action Input: the input to the action
    Observation: the result of the action
    ... (this process can repeat multiple times)
    Thought: I now know the final answer
    Final Answer: the final answer to the original input question

    Begin!
    Question: {input}
    """
        return ReAct_prompt.format(input=context["question"])
    ```

- Add to the message context:
  - **Key**: `question`
  - **Value**: `What is the result of super bowl 2024?`

![Chat Message](../static/images/light/examples/8/message.webp#only-light)
![Chat Message](../static/images/dark/examples/8/message.webp#only-dark)

### Step 4: Execute and Monitor

1. Run the flow by pressing the play button.
2. In the logs section, observe how the Assistant uses the search tool to retrieve relevant information and respond to the query.

!!! Warning
    When running the flow for the first time, you might get an error saying `Please install anthropic to use anthropic`. Even though the library is installed (`ag2[anthropic]`), you might need to restart the kernel to resolve the issue.

!!! Note
    Once the flow starts, you might be prompt before running the search tool. You can just press Enter on the prompt to continue the flow.

![Prompt](../static/images/light/examples/8/message.webp#only-light)
![Prompt](../static/images/dark/examples/8/message.webp#only-dark)

---

Files used in this example:

- Flow: [ReAct.waldiez](https://github.com/waldiez/examples/blob/main/08%20-%20ReAct%20using%20Tavily/ReAct.waldiez)
- Tool: [search_tool.waldiezTool](https://github.com/waldiez/examples/blob/main/Exported/tools/search_tool.waldiezTool)
